# Setting up the Documentation Working Group

## Introduction

moja global is an international collaboration under the Linux Foundation that provides software tools to better manage the land sector (forests and agriculture). The flagship software is called the **Full Lands Integration Tool** (FLINT) and it is used to estimate emissions and removals of greenhouse gases from the land sector. The FLINT uses a range of input data and combines it with model greenhouse gas fluxes between a range of pools for every time step. At every time step, all pool values and the fluxes between all pools are stored in an output database. Reports are generated by a reporting tool that queries the database and arranges the results in the required format.

We are looking to set up a Documentation Working Group, which would be primarily aimed at developing high-quality user and developer documentation. The Documentation Working group would be geared towards making sure that all of the important software, tools and projects are well-documented with a standard developer experience defined to help new contributors in getting started with the community.

The Documentation Working Group would be specifically used for capability building, bringing onboard new contributors, and helping them to get started, while making sure that the influx of new contributions is not hindered by a lack of good documentation. The next sections of this document describe how the Documentation Working Group would be coordinated, and what sort of impact it would have in the large and diverse community that makes up moja global.

## What will the Documentation Working Group do?

As the name suggests, the primary goal of the Documentation Working Group would be to develop documentation for various projects under the moja global umbrella. However, to better understand how to connect our efforts on documentation, an understanding of how documentation is currently developed at moja global is required.

For every project release, a new Docs Plan is created after the epic list for the release is obtained. The epic list describes the bugs that were fixed, the features that were added, and all the trivial/non-trivial changes that were made that hold importance with respect to users and developers. Based on the epic prioritization and bandwidths, the Documentation Working Group would commit to documenting the epic list for the release. The Docs Plan would be signed off by all the key stakeholders, which includes contributors, ambassadors, coaches and maintainers.

The general documentation development process is very simple, yet very intuitive, for our use-case. It would include the following ordered steps:


1.  Research: Documentation research process is an intensive one and we can depend on the developer inputs while performing the research.

2.  Draft: Based on the prior research done, a draft can be prepared which would be reviewed by the stakeholders before signing off on it.

3.  Review: After the release of the final draft, the developers/maintainers would review the draft and suggest any improvements or provide feedback before it is sent as a Pull Request.

4.  Merge: The documentation would be peer reviewed, and after all suggestions are incorporated, the write-up would be merged to the official documentation and hosted.

But where are we planning for documentation releases and developing new documentation pieces? The Doc Issues would be created on the respective repositories through GitHub Issues, where they can be easily tracked and accounted for by the stakeholders. All the documentation-related issues would be labelled as “documentation”. At the end of the day, as a volunteer for the Documentation Working group we would be working on:

-   Creating user-story based end user documentation that makes complex things simple so that even a first time user can quickly start off using our projects.

-   Creating modular content that can be reused/repurposed for different formats and different use cases.

-   Adhering to minimalism practices, logically structure our content, and endeavor to make it as findable as possible.

-   Reduce the number of developer/user issues the engineering team needs to deal with on GitHub.

As part of the Documentation Working group, we will work asynchronously with the engineering teams to set a clear Release, feature freeze, and code Freeze dates, which would allow us to set our Documentation Freeze and even Release Notes dates.

Remember, [docs or it didn’t happen](https://opensource.com/business/15/8/docs-or-it-didnt-happen).

## What are the different areas we would be working on?

The Documentation Working Group would not be just limited to develop software documentation, release notes and user/developer documentation. We would be working on a plethora of things which would concern the overall Content Strategy in place for moja global (under development). As an abstraction, some of our work would be concerned with the following:

-   **Training Material**: Training materials are of utmost need for new developers and contributors at moja global. It would help them upskill at a pace that we would like, to make them fit for contributing and plugging in their efforts. moja global would soon be hosting some of the training materials over Moodle learning management system (LMS) which would be expanded over the time.

-   **Website maintenance**:  We would love to have people with some experience in Web Development, maintain our [main website](http://moja.global/) and the [community website](https://github.com/moja-global/contributor-website-v2). The skill set would depend on the area of work we would be exploring, but the most part of the website maintenance would concern itself with updating content, writing blogs and content which can be published centrally.

-   **Promotion**: The primary reason why documentation is so much focussed on is because of its potential to develop an outreach and promotion for the community. As part of the Documentation Working group, we will be working on promotional content for Social media channels that can be utilized to spread the word about moja global and how they can be onboarded.

-   **Coordination**: moja global contributors put a lot of focus on documentative approach of communication. Every message written on Slack or the mailing list, if carefully written, can be reused in the future as a resource that can be helpful to new contributors. The coordination efforts would rely on finding these resources which can be integrated with the documentation and coordinate the forums and mailing lists.

We are yet to decide on the tools & technologies that we would be employing for our purpose. However some of them that are most commonly employed are [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/), [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/), [ReadTheDocs](https://readthedocs.org/), [Moodle](https://moodle.org/), [GitHub Issues](https://guides.github.com/features/issues/), [GitHub Project Board](https://github.com/features/project-management/). We are also looking to use more efficient project management tools to track our documentation and releases and we are open to suggestions for the same.

## How to apply? 

The Documentation Working Group would be entirely driven by volunteer efforts but we would like to keep track of all the contributors who would like to join. It would further help us set proper workflows, processes and contribution pipelines that would allow us to track the work being done and set realistic timelines. You can pitch for several documentation-specific domains that you would like to contribute to.

All the Contributors for the Documentation Working Group would be roped in for a bi-weekly sync call where we would discuss the work that has been completed and the upcoming documentation work that needs to be done.

To get started, please fill this form: **[https://forms.gle/ibH2XsaBSAeiyQcX7](https://forms.gle/ibH2XsaBSAeiyQcX7)**

Once you fill the form, you will hear back from one of the coordinators to help you get started in an easy manner. You will receive invites for our sync call and will be added to the Slack Channels and GitHub teams where the work can be further coordinated.

We are looking forward to your contributions!
