# Documentation Working Group - Meeting Minutes

## Date: August 3, 2021

### Agenda

- Discussed around asynchronous communication with GitHub Issues and PR for reviews and feedback.
- Presented the moja global documentation style guide and roped in initial reviewers for sharing feedback and reviews.
- Presented the idea of a re-designed index page for the community website and a public roadmap to signify future development.
- Discussed about the FLINT UI and SaaS project and how new contributors can contribute to the same.
- Discussed about writing blogs for the community website and taking up unassigned pending issues as `good-first-issues` for new contributors.
